Welcome back.
This is part two of our discussion on the Cisco IP phone startup process.
Previously we looked at how an IP phone obtains power how it learns its real information using CTP what
level DP How are we going to continue the discussion by looking at how an IP phone acquires an IP address
how it downloads its foemen configuration and how it registers with the CCN.
We'll also discuss the two signalling protocols of skinny and set.
Now once the phone has obtained power routed and received its Villon information by CGP you LLB It then
requires an IP address you could manually configure an IP address on a Cisco might be fun.
That's fine when you only have two or three phones.
But if you have a deployment of several thousand phones it's very unlikely that you want to configure
the IP addresses manually.
So a more common method of allocating IP addresses in the real world is to use a DHP server.
So in this example the phone is on The Voice Fillon the PCs on the data villain and you've configured
ADHD the server with a scope for both the data plan and the voice the land and you've set up a layer
3 switch to forward DHP requests to the DHP server.
Otherwise you could configure a DHB server on the voice villaine or on the switch or other networking
device.
Not a lot of VOIP deployments the DHP server is configured on the layer 3 switch so that when the phone
sends out a broadcast requesting an IP address it receives directly from the switch.
However you could run the DHP server on a Cisco Unified Communications Manager.
That's not generally recommended.
You would only run the DHP service on the C UCM if you had less than 1000 phones in your topology in
a Cisco IP phone environment.
It's very important that you configure the following options on the DHP server.
So you need to configure the network a mosque for the voice Villon.
So what subnet are they on the phones on.
And what mosque are they going to use.
You're going to specify option 3 commonly known as default router or default gateway.
And then you need to specify option 150 which specifies the IP address of the TFT server.
The phones need to get that configuration and updated firmware from a TFT server.
So option 150 is critical.
So once the DHP request has been received the DHP server will send a DHP offer back to the phone and
that offer will contain these parameters.
Now once again the Unified Communications Manager can be configured to act as a DHP server for up to
1000 phones.
This is not recommended because only one DHP server can be configured per cluster.
In other words it's a standalone DHP server with no backup.
The service would normally be run on the publisher multiple subnets can be configured on the DHB server
but it's generally not recommended to do this because of the issue of no redundancy and lack of scalability.
So it's better to use an external DHP server running on a rod or a switch or on a Windows server or
a Linux server.
In other words use an external DHB server rather than the C UCM.
I'd like to show you however how to set up DHC on the Cecka Unified Communications Manager.
What you need to do is open up a browser and point it to HDD POS Karlen Forte's Lesch forward slash
the address of your Unified Communications Manager Ford slash CCMA service.
Now because the see UCM is using a self-signed certificate your browser won't recognize the certificate.
So you've got to click Continue to this Web site to accept the certificate.
The only issue you need to be aware of is that the self-signed certificate is not recognized by operating
system and Internet Explorer or Firefox.
You've just gotta make sure that the server you're connecting to is the correct server so the server
that you think you are connecting to is the correct CCMA server.
Notice on the top right inside there are various menu options and will cover a lot of this during the
course we are currently on the serviceability menu which allows us for instance to start and stop services.
You need to log in with your username and password.
I'll just increase the size of the browser window here.
You need to go to Tools service activation.
We are going to activate the DHP service
and you can see a list of services the service that we need to activate is the Cisco DHP monitor service.
I'll discuss the various services in more detail later in this course.
But notice for instance there's the Cisco co-manager service the Cisco TFT service and so forth and
so on that you need to click save the sea UCM will warn you that activating and deactivating services
can take a while to just click OK.
You just need to wait for the page to refresh.
And it'll be a confirmation that the service is activated.
OK the update operation was successful to check if the service is running we can go to Tools control
same to feature services
and in the list of services
we can see that the Cisco DHB monitor service has started and it has been activated.
So getting to the top of the page I can select the Cisco unified CME administration option and click
go.
This will take me to the administration pages of see UCM.
I just want to point out the role notice notices HTP is colon Ford slash Ford slash ten to one one.
In other words the IP address of you see UCM Ford slash caesium Edman.
This is a famous year old to remember.
See UCM is the administration pages of the Siska unified communications manager or call manager or whatever
you prefer to call it
going to the system menu.
I can choose the option the HGP the HGP server.
There is no default the HGP server just to show you that I can click find and you'll notice Yeates is
zero records found.
So let's click at me.
I choose the IP address of must see UCM.
So that's the server that I'm going to configure the HGP on.
I can then specify a primary DNS server so whatever the IP addresses of my DNS server
it's a primary and secondary DNS service can be configured.
I can specify the primary TFT server.
Now this is very important.
Remember option 150 is required for the phones to get their configuration and firmware so this will
be the IP address of my see UCM server or comms manager server.
There are various other options that I can specify here like the IP address least time and so forth.
Which just going to leave all of those default values and click save
so I've specified information like my DNS server and my TFT server.
Now going to system the HGP DHC subnet I can create various subnets
I'm going to click add what you're doing here is essentially creating scope's or sublets for devices
on different villans or subnets within your organization.
Once again I can select my DHP server.
I can now specify the subnet.
So for instance attained or to or 2.0 specify the starting IP address to allocate to my phone's chain
door to door to door 1 and IP address.
So these are just values that specify the IP addresses to give to the phones.
I can specify my Rafter's IP address 10 door to door to the 101.
I can specify my 78 MOS 255 255 260 5.0 I could specify my domain name.
Once again I could specify in my TFT server
notice it's the same IP address as the IP address of my DHP server because both the TFT server and the
DHP server running on my C UCM server.
Once again I could specify various other options including the lease time for this scope or the specific
subnet.
I could then click save.
That's how you configure DHC on CCN in a separate section of course.
I'm going to show you how to set up.
See you see me with DHP.
In other words configuring the sheepy on a router.
Once the phones have received an IP address the phones will attempt to download the firmware and configuration
from a TFT server.
Phones get updated from way and the phone configuration from the TFT server running on the CCN the Cisco
TFT P service Boll's configuration files and SUSE imbedded component executable ring of files and device
configuration files to the phones.
So when the phone connects to the TFT server it's going to attempt to download a device specific configuration
file.
In other words a phone with a Mac address quadrupole a quadruple B quadruple C will attempt to download
a file starting with ECP which once again just stands for Celsius.
Ethan at phone with its MAC address dot CNF dot.
Example that configuration file is built automatically on the C UCM when you add that phone to the C
UCM configuration.
If the phone is not being created on the communications manager or see UCM the phone will attempt to
download a file.
Default dot CNF dot X amount.
This is a configuration file that contains basic settings like the firmware.
The phone should be using and the communications manager that the phone should be communicating with.
So it points to the C UCM server and provides details like the IP address of the UCM and the port number
the phone should be using when communicating to the CC.
It can also contain other information like location information and your roles for phone buttons to
configure TFT P on the sea you see and you need to do the following.
On the navigation pages go to the serviceability menu so select serviceability and then click go.
You could also go directly to HGT P.S. IP address of the CC and forward slash CCMA service under the
Tools menu.
We're going to select service activation once again under the service as you'll notice Cisco TFT.
So we'll select that and then save we once again warned about activating and deactivating services and
we'll just click OK.
And the update operation has been successful.
Notice the Cisco TFT service is activated.
That's all there is to configuring TFT P on the C UCM server.
Once the phone has downloaded it's configuration and updated its firmware it will attempt to communicate
with the UCM two important court numbers that you need to remember or RTC Peapod 2000 used by skinny
plan control protocol or skinny and TZP port 50 60 used by Sepp.
The two signalling protocols used on handsets in Cisco environments are skinny or.
So the phones will now try to connect to the C UCM and register.
These are default code numbers and can be changed.
To change them on the UCM you would do the following.
Under the navigation menu you would go to Cisco unified CMA administration click go under the system
menu.
You can go to the option Siska unified C.M.
and then notice this option find
you can see in this example we have one see UCM someone to click on that option and scrolling down to
the bottom.
You'll notice you have options here for the TZP port settings for the server.
The first one is isn't it phone port.
In other words skinny which is port 2000.
Then we have in GCP listen board in MGC beekeeper lives in GCP is typically used on Gateway's rather
than phones that you could change the port members used over here.
Yes the port used by Sep 50 60.
And if you want to use a clear set the port number by default is 50 61.
You can change the port numbers just by changing the options in the slowest now skinny call Control
Protocol or a CCP commonly known as skinny is a Cisco proprietary terminal control protocol.
This is the first of two protocols used for signaling and control of Cisco IP phones.
The second one is Sishen Initiation Protocol or the recommended protocol but implementation of Cisco
IP phones has for many years been skinny that is changing these days as more features are added to.
But for now understand that skinny is a proprietary protocol.
It's a stimulus protocol for every event.
The device sends a message to the UCM the phones themselves are clients to the Unified Communications
Manager.
They can not even provide Darlton without the C UCM telling them to provide to that dial tone.
It's proprietary which has the advantage of quick additions and changes but disadvantage of not being
interoperable with other vendors.
Once again that's a client server architecture where the C UCM is in control of the IP phones.
It allows for a simple configuration where the phones themselves have no configuration but get the entire
configuration from the C UCM the C UCM maintains the dull plan and route patterns.
In other words it maintains all the information for the phones the phones themselves can do nothing
without the sea UCM telling them what to do.
So for example if we had a situation like this with IP phone 1000 IP phone 1001 connected to a switch
physically but registered with the Cisco Communications Manager these phones are totally under the control
of the UCM if one falls and when off hook the phone would send the skinny message to the CM saying I'm
off work.
What must I do.
And the C UCM would send a message to the phone saying play dull tone.
It's important to notice that adult time does not come from the C UCM like it would in a traditional
environment.
The dull tone is played locally from the phone if the phone dulled a digit digit one that would be sent
to the UCM the comms manager would process that message and send a message back saying stop Dalton.
Now there are a lot of other messages taking place in the background.
But I just want to show you a high level overview of the process.
Subsequent digits the same thing would happen.
The phone would send a message to the comms manager and the comms manager would send messages back.
For example when your dollar digit let's say digit 1 that digit displays on your phone because a message
is being sent to the comms manager and a message is being sent back again saying display this digit
on the phone once 1000 has dialed digits 1 0 0 1.
The comms manager can match those digits to a phone that's currently registered.
In other words this handset the comms manager has a record of all phones that are currently available
and registered.
So the comms manager will send a skinny message to the phone telling it to ring.
It'll also tell the phone to make its lamp flash.
Other messages that are sent to the phone are to change the display so that one thousand one can see
that the call is coming from 1000 when the user answers the call.
A skinny message is sent back to the comms manager telling the comms manager that the phone is now off
work.
The comms manager will send a message back to the phone telling it to stop ringing telling it to stop
flashing its lamp telling it to change its display and so forth and so on.
The moral of the story is that these two phones can do nothing without the comms manager telling them
what to do.
They are clients to the server the UCM will then send messages to both phones telling the phones to
set up an RTP stream to each other.
It's important to remember that the RTP streams are direct between the two phones so there's a separate
RTP stream from one thousand two one thousand one and a nother separate unique directional RTP stream
from 1001 to 1000 the RTP streams do not flow via the CCN they are direct between the two handsets.
Obviously physically they are flowing through the switch but logically they are going directly to one
another.
So the comms manager communicates with both phones telling them about each other.
Because phone 1000 needs to know the IP address of one thousand ones so that it can stream the RTP to
the right IP address 1000 or so needs to know the port number that 1001 is using.
So it can stream to the right port number and by the same token one thousand one needs to know the IP
address and port number that 1000 is using.
So skinny messages are used by the C UCM to communicate that information to the handsets.
But once the call is established the C UCM is no longer involved in the conversation.
The two devices are communicating directly with each other without any interaction from the C UCM now
session initiation protocol or surp is an open standard unlike skinny which is proprietary.
It's a peer to peer protocol unlike skinny which is client server but be away please.
That set supported basic functionality and the open standards.
But to get feature parity with skinny Cyp has been extended by Cisco to provide the functionality.
So even though Cyp has an open standard it is extended by vendors to provide features.
So don't expect to be able to go and buy a cheap soop handset from your local retailer and connected
to a Cisco call manager or express environment and have the same features as Cisco phones.
That's not going to happen.
You're going to be able to make and receive calls and have basic functionality but don't expect the
same features as what you'll get on a Cisco handset.
A peer to peer protocol isn't a great idea when you have 10000 phones.
So in Cyp we have a concept of a proxy server which as an analogy controls the call between the two
phones.
Please note this is not a pure client server environment like you have been skinny certain processing
can be done by the local handset with most of the processing done by the CCMA whereas in skinny wool
processing is done on the caesium sip is becoming more and more popular and over the last few years
Cisco has been investing more and more in the features and functionality of base phones.
One of the great things that you get with this presence.
Also provides interoperability with other vendors and is the protocol of choice for interoperability
between vendors once registered with the see UCM the phones will download the soft key templates.
We'll be talking more about the softkey template later but essentially that is the layout of some of
the buttons on the phone.
That concludes our discussion of the Cisco IP phone start a process.
We looked at how an IP phone obtains power.
We discuss different methods of provisioning power to an IP filing.
We looked at how an IP phone obtains the information IP addressing configuration and firmware and how
it registers with the C UCM.
We also discussed the two signalling protocols that can be used by Cisco IP phones skinny and Cyp thank
you for watching.